README.md, before:

# EGH400-Camera-Calibration
Thesis Project - Camera Calibration Testing for Localisation System

This repository stores data gathered for calibrating the Intel Realsense LiDAR Camera L515, in preparation for testing the ROS2-Localisation-System. 
A proper calibration procedure is required to accurately determine the position of the ARUCO marker, and minimise the potential noise coming from the camera's readings,
which can impact the tracking of the aruco marker by giving false readings of the marker position.

MATLAB scripts are created for calibration and comparison with OptiTracker results. Outputs of these scripts include...
- Camera matrix from the calibration session
- World Transformations

## `extrinsics_test.m`
Used to analyse the checkerboard marker image; outputs the checkerboard origin position.

## TEST1_CameraCalibration1

### `WorldTransfromations11.m`
Creates the 3D environment of the Optitracker global position; camera position (estimated); 
optitracker output and the checkerboard marker position (based on camera intrinsics).
By comparing the optitracker output and camera output, the precise camera position can be determined.

Commit message:

Template cleaniing up - renamed to CamCalibrationTransformsTEMPLATE - cleaning up revision 05 to only include required files - renaming variables inside 'CamExtrinsics' and 'WorldTransformations' so that their methods match up; add `FileName`; save required variables from `.m` to `.mat`; load `.mat` file into `main.m`.

README.md, after:

# EGH400-Camera-Calibration
Thesis Project - Camera Calibration Testing for Localisation System

This repository stores data gathered for calibrating the Intel Realsense LiDAR Camera L515, in preparation for testing the ROS2-Localisation-System. 
A proper calibration procedure is required to accurately determine the position of the ARUCO marker, and minimise the potential noise coming from the camera's readings,
which can impact the tracking of the aruco marker by giving false readings of the marker position.

MATLAB scripts are created for calibration and comparison with OptiTracker results. Outputs of these scripts include...
- Camera matrix from the calibration session
- World Transformations

## `extrinsics_test.m`
Used to analyse the checkerboard marker image; outputs the checkerboard origin position.

## CamCalibrationTransformsTEMPLATE
Transformations using the camera checkerboard collected intrinsics and extrinsics are tested here prior to assessing ARUCO results. This verifies that validity of the camera calibration and world transformations.

## CameraCalibration1_TEST1
This was the first camera calibration testing that we completed. In retrospect, could have been improved by paying close attention to all images, their quality (despite what MATLAB says and with thorough visual analysis) and following the instructions laid out by MATLAB Camera Calibration App.

### `WorldTransfromations11.m`
Creates the 3D environment of the Optitracker global position; camera position (estimated); 
optitracker output and the checkerboard marker position (based on camera intrinsics).
By comparing the optitracker output and camera output, the precise camera position can be determined.


## CameraCalibration2_PRETEST2
Using prior calibration images, trying to improve them and get a better result output than those seen in __CameraCalibration1_TEST1__.
